fix(universal): rewrite universal quickstart to make it work and align it with Kubernetes quickstart demo (#2005)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/quickstart/universal-demo.md

## Prerequisites

* [Redis installed, not running](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/)

## Install {{site.mesh_product_name}}

To download {{site.mesh_product_name}} we will use official installer, it will automatically detect the operating system (Amazon Linux, CentOS, RedHat, Debian, Ubuntu, and macOS) and download {{site.mesh_product_name}}:

```shell
curl -L {{site.links.web}}{% if page.edition %}/{{page.edition}}{% endif %}/installer.sh | VERSION={{ page.version_data.version }} sh -
```

To finish installation we need to add {{site.mesh_product_name}} binaries to path: 

```shell
export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/{{site.mesh_product_name_path}}-{{ page.version_data.version }}/bin
```

## Start control plane

Now we need to start [control plane](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#control-plane) in background by running command:

```shell
kuma-cp run > cp-logs.txt 2>&1 &
```

To check if control plane started without issues you can check logs:

```shell
tail cp-logs.txt
```

## Deploy demo application

> ### Generate tokens for data planes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Generate tokens for data plane proxies
```

> On Universal we need to manually create tokens for [data planes](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#data-plane). To do this need to run this commands (these tokens will be valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Universal we need to manually create tokens for [data plane proxies](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#data-plane). To do this need to run this commands (these tokens will be valid
```

## Prerequisites

> * [Redis installed](https://redis.io/docs/getting-started/)

Reviewer 2: I hit one thing that's not fluent here.
As a user, we may just start up the redis-server by the offical redis documentation with default `port 6379`. Later I feel a little bit confused with the DP startup command `servicePort: 26379`. However, go head with the latter doc section `Run kuma-counter-demo app` I realised that I need to start up the redis-server with the given command in port `26379`. 

So I was wondering could we put the redis-server startup command here?
> redis-server --port 26379 --daemonize yes && redis-cli -p 26379 set zone local

Author: I don't think this makes sense, this instruction does not say to startup redis just to install it, I can rephrase this prerequisite to be just `Redis CLI installed`

Reviewer 2: `Redis-CLI` and `Redis-Server` installed

## Install {{site.mesh_product_name}}

To download {{site.mesh_product_name}} we will use official installer, it will automatically detect the operating system (Amazon Linux, CentOS, RedHat, Debian, Ubuntu, and macOS) and download {{site.mesh_product_name}}:

```shell
curl -L {{site.links.web}}{% if page.edition %}/{{page.edition}}{% endif %}/installer.sh | VERSION={{ page.version_data.version }} sh -
```

To finish installation we need to add {{site.mesh_product_name}} binaries to path: 

```shell
export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/{{site.mesh_product_name_path}}-{{ page.version_data.version }}/bin
```

## Start control plane

Now we need to start control plane in background by running command:

```shell
kuma-cp run > cp-logs.txt 2>&1 &
```

To check if control plane started without issues you can check logs:

```shell
tail cp-logs.txt
```

## Deploy demo application

> ### Generate token for data planes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Generate tokens for dataplanes
```

> On Universal we need to manually create token for data planes. To do this need to run this commands (these tokens will be valid

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Universal we need to manually create tokens for dataplanes. To do this need to run this commands (these tokens will be valid
```

for 30 days):

```sh
kumactl generate dataplane-token --tag kuma.io/service=redis --valid-for=720h > /tmp/kuma-token-redis
kumactl generate dataplane-token --tag kuma.io/service=demo-app --valid-for=720h > /tmp/kuma-token-demo-app
```

> After generating tokens we can data planes that will be used for proxying traffic between `demo-app` and `redis`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After generating tokens we can start the dataplanes that will be used for proxying traffic between `demo-app` and `redis`.
```

> ### Start data planes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Start the dataplanes
```

This isn't related to mTLS between services.
{% endwarning %}

> First we can start `redis` dataplane. On universal we need to manually create Dataplane object for our data plane, and 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First we can start dataplane `redis`. On Universal we need to manually create Dataplane objects for dataplanes, and 
```

> First we can start the data plane proxy for `redis`. On Universal we need to manually create Dataplane [resources](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#resource) for data planes, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we can start the data plane proxy for `redis`. On Universal we need to manually create Dataplane [resources](/docs/{{ page.version }}/introduction/concepts#resource) for data plane proxies, and 
```

run kuma-dp manually, to do this run:

```shell

> KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9901{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}KUMA_APPLICATION_PROBE_PROXY_PORT=9902{% endif_version %} kuma-dp run \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9901 \{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}KUMA_APPLICATION_PROBE_PROXY_PORT=9902 \{% endif_version %} kuma-dp run \
```

          kuma.io/service: redis
          kuma.io/protocol: tcp
    admin:
      port: 9903"
```

> You can notice that we manually specify readiness port with environment variable `KUMA_READINESS_PORT` when every data plane is 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can notice that we are manually specifying the readiness port with environment variable `KUMA_READINESS_PORT`, when each dataplane is 
```

> running on separate machines this is obsolete. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
running on separate machines this is not required. 
```

> [//]: # (TODO should we tell users explicitely to open another terminal window or should we just run kuma-dp in background?)

Reviewer: yeah I'm not sure. I personally like the additional terminal option. We can have the user print maybe the PWD and reference it so they can copy paste it?

> [//]: # (TODO should we tell users explicitely to open another terminal window or should we just run kuma-dp in background?)

Author: I also like addition terminals option, but with this you need constantly update path to Kuma binaries directory. I think it would be best if you could simply copy and paste instruction into the terminal and expect everything to work, like for k8s

> [//]: # (TODO should we tell users explicitely to open another terminal window or should we just run kuma-dp in background?)

Reviewer: Unfortunately I don't think it's possible without a "navigate to the directory you downloaded the binaries in" instruction

> [//]: # (TODO should we tell users explicitely to open another terminal window or should we just run kuma-dp in background?)

Reviewer 3: Probably we add a comment above this `kuma-dp run` as follows?
```sh
# make sure you've added the Kuma binary directory into your PATH
# make sure your working directory is at the same place at which you place the dataplane manifest
```

> Now we need to start data plane for our demo-app, we can do this by running:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now we can start the dataplane for our demo-app, we can do this by running:
```

```shell

> KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9903 ./kuma-dp run \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9903 kuma-dp run \
```

> KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9903 ./kuma-dp run \

Reviewer: Unfortunately I hit:

```
2024-10-22T17:22:06.390+0200	ERROR	kuma-dp.run	error while running Kuma DP	{"error": "unable to listen for the Application Probe Proxy server: listen tcp :9001: bind: address already in use", "errorVerbose": "listen tcp :9001: bind: address already in use\nunable to listen for the Application Probe Proxy server\ngithub.com/kumahq/kuma/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/probes.(*Prober).Start\n\tgithub.com/kumahq/kuma/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/probes/component.go:66\ngithub.com/kumahq/kuma/pkg/core/runtime/component.(*manager).startNonLeaderComponents.func1\n\tgithub.com/kumahq/kuma/pkg/core/runtime/component/component.go:170\nruntime.goexit\n\truntime/asm_amd64.s:1700"}
```

here.

Author: fixed

> KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9904{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}KUMA_APPLICATION_PROBE_PROXY_PORT=9905{% endif_version %} kuma-dp run \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
KUMA_READINESS_PORT=9904 \{% if_version gte:2.9.x %}KUMA_APPLICATION_PROBE_PROXY_PORT=9905 \{% endif_version %} kuma-dp run \
```

        servicePort: 5000
        serviceAddress: 127.0.0.1
        tags: 
          kuma.io/service: demo-app
          kuma.io/protocol: http
    admin:
      port: 9906"
```

### Run kuma-counter-demo app

> 1. With data planes running we can start our apps, first we will start and configure `Redis`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. With the dataplane proxies running, we can start our apps, first we will start and configure `Redis`:
```

Reviewer 3: We are distingwishing the dataplane proxy with the actual application here, so it better to add "proxy".

```shell
redis-server --port 26379 --daemonize yes && redis-cli -p 26379 set zone local
```
You should see message `OK` from `Redis` if this operation was successful.

2. Now we can start our `demo-app`. To do this we need to download repository with its source code:
```shell
git clone https://github.com/kumahq/kuma-counter-demo.git && cd kuma-counter-demo
```

> 3. No we need to run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Now we need to run:
```

To learn more, read the [documentation about the user interface](/docs/{{ page.version}}/production/gui).

## Introduction to zero-trust security

By default, the network is insecure and not encrypted. We can change this with {{site.mesh_product_name}} by enabling 
the [Mutual TLS](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/mutual-tls/) policy to provision a Certificate Authority (CA) that 
will automatically assign TLS certificates to our services (more specifically to the injected data plane proxies running 
alongside the services).

{% if_version gte:2.6.x %}
Before enabling [Mutual TLS](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/mutual-tls/) (mTLS) in your mesh, you need to create a
`MeshTrafficPermission` policy that allows traffic between your applications.

{% warning %}
If you enable [mTLS](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/mutual-tls/) without a `MeshTrafficPermission` policy, all traffic between your applications will be blocked. 
{% endwarning %}

To create a `MeshTrafficPermission` policy, you can use the following command:

```shell
echo 'type: MeshTrafficPermission 

> name: mtp

Reviewer: Should still be `allow-all` right?

Reviewer: We can delete this one and create another instead of overwriting `mtp`?

Author: we do the same in Kubernetes quickstart. I can change this to removing instead of overriding mtp

Reviewer: If we keep it, we should explain what's happening because it's not clear we're taking advantage of the names here IMO

mesh: default 
spec: 
  targetRef: 
    kind: Mesh 
  from: 
    - targetRef: 
        kind: Mesh 
      default: 

>         action: Allow' | kumactl apply -f -

Reviewer 3: User needs to configure their kumactl and add a control plane configuration before they can create policies, right?

At this point, the demo application should not function, because we blocked the traffic.
You can verify this by clicking the increment button again and seeing the error message in the browser.
We can allow the traffic from the `demo-app` to `redis` by applying the following `MeshTrafficPermission`:

```shell
echo 'type: MeshTrafficPermission 
name: allow-from-demo-app
mesh: default 
spec: 
  targetRef: 
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
      kuma.io/service: redis
  from: 
    - targetRef: 
        kind: MeshSubset 
        tags:
          kuma.io/service: demo-app
      default: 
        action: Allow' | kumactl apply -f -
```

{% tip %}
As usual, you can visualize the Mutual TLS configuration and the Traffic Permission policies we have just applied via the GUI, the HTTP API or `kumactl`.
{% endtip %}
You can click the increment button, the application should function once again.
However, the traffic to `redis` from any other service than `demo-app` is not allowed.

## Next steps

* Explore the [Features](/features) available to govern and orchestrate your service traffic.

> * Add a gateway to access the demo from the outside by following the [builtin gateway guide](/docs/{{ page.version }}/guides/gateway-builtin/).

Author: removed this links as they are Kubernetes guides, and userdon't have setup to follow them after this guide
